(screaming)
SHELBY:
I never thought about
what could be
in the wilderness.
Hiding in the dark.
(phone ringing)
Hello.
I thought I was dreaming.
(static)
Do you see her?
I didn't think
it could get any worse.
(calling):
Hey!
(screaming)
(screaming continues)
I am the queen of every hive.
I am the fire on every hill.
I am the shield over every head.
I am the spear of battle.
Who but I am both the tree
and the lightning
that strikes it.
(screaming)
(panting)
(panting slows)
(leaves rustling)
SHELBY: I never thought about
what could be in the
wilderness.
Hiding in the dark, or...
Or what it'd take
for me just to survive.
THE BUTCHER: This deserter was
found at the edge of the wood
with our provisions stolen
from the storehouse.
Justice demands penance
for his betrayal.
For he is but a cloven beast,
rotting in the mire and muck,
as unclean
as his festering soul.
(muffled screams)
Speak, pig, speak!
(screaming)
Let him be purified.
(grunting)
(yelling)
(fire roaring)
(muffled screaming)
(gasps)
(twig snaps)
Seize her!
(distorted yelling)
(panting)
(car horn blaring,
tires screeching)
(gasps)
(car engine idling)
Lee brought her to the hospital.
And when she woke up,
Shelby told the police
a lot of wild stories...
about when she got
to the human sacrifice.
They sent an officer out
to investigate,
but they couldn't find anything.
They also told the nurses
to take some blood
to check and see
if Shelby was on drugs.
Hallucinogens.
She was clean.
(quietly):
Bam.
(laughs)
I like my teddy bear.
I should have been
there to protect you
from whatever this was.
I'm sorry.
But I'm here now,
and we will find
somewhere else to stay.
I promise you that.
No.
I think it was
one of the mountain men.
The whole thing was
an elaborate hoax.
They are desperate
to scare us away, Matt.
Look at me.
(sighs)
We can't let them.
We can't leave.
Not when every cent we have
is tied up in that house.
If it was a fight they wanted,
it was a fight
they were gonna get.
Looking back,
I understand why the court
gave Mason full custody.
(sighs)
What kind of mother
does the things I did
during those times?
It's my great shame;
I hate myself for it.
I didn't want to bring her
to the house.
Not with everything
that was going on.
(SUV door closes)
Mama says this was a farmhouse.
Where's the chickens
and the pigs and stuff?
Come on, baby.
LEE: But I was really trying
to reconnect with Flora,
regain her trust,
that special
mother-daughter bond.
Bye, Daddy.
LEE:
I figured if I kept her inside,
and kept a close eye on her,
it would be all right.
(lock clicks)
Ah! Good one.
(laughs)
Hey, you hungry?
Okay.
I'll be right back.
You can put
my little girl anywhere,
and she will make herself
at home.
She will make any place
her place.
(Lee chuckles)
FLORA (quietly):
She's gonna hurt us?
(Flora continues
talking quietly in distance)
LEE:
Baby?
FLORA: If I give you my doll,
will she stay away?
(sighs)
(Flora continues
talking quietly)
(Flora talking quietly)
(chuckles)
Hey, baby.
Who are you talking to?
Priscilla.
She's my friend.
(chuckles)
I heard this happens a lot
with children of divorce.
They start making things up.
Acting out.
It broke my heart to think
I had done this to her.
So what were you
and Priscilla talking about?
Or is that a secret?
She's gonna make
a bonnet for me
just like hers
if we help her.
Oh. A bonnet.
Help her do what?
Make it stop.
Make what stop?
She said she's tired
of all the blood.
(glass shatters)
(exhales)
Stay right here.
(wind whooshing softly)
¶ ¶
What's your sister thinking?
Uh, she wants to see her kid.
You know how Mason is.
She don't want to give him
a reason to keep her away.
She thinks
I'm full of shit.
She knows you're under
a lot of pressure.
She knows
I'm not lying.
She was in the basement
with me when those inbreds
came into our home
and hung those things.
I know.
I agree. We're not gonna
lose our life savings
on account of
these assholes.
We fight.
At least until
we can sell.
Hey.
Are you sure that's
what you want to do?
We might not
have a choice.
Good night.
SHELBY:
I felt a little guilty.
Matt knew that
I wasn't happy there,
and I knew that Lee thought
I was making up stories.
It was easier to believe that.
I mean...
the alternative was scary.
Someone didn't want us
in that house,
and they were gonna make
damn sure that we left
and never came back.
(inhuman howling)
Shelby?
(door creaks)
Shelby, what are you doing?
Someone's outside.
What?
Yeah, I'm going out there.
Are you crazy?
No. I'm not crazy,
I'm pissed off.
I'm not gonna sit here cowering
under the covers this time.
(crickets chirping)
Shel.
I don't see anything.
Shh-shh-shh-shh.
(whispers): What did you hear?
Listen.
(footsteps running)
SHELBY:
Hello?
(footsteps running)
Who's out there?!
Show yourself!
Shel.
Shelby!
I just wanted it to stop.
I wanted them to know
that they couldn't scare me,
that we wouldn't be bullied.
SHELBY:
Damn it.
Matt? Matt?!
(whimpers)
Matt?
Shelby?!
Shit.
(branch snaps, quiet snorting)
(loud squealing, snorting)
(sighs)
Shelby!
You hear about people getting
lost in the woods, but...
...that's how quick
it can happen.
SHELBY:
Matt?
Matt?!
MATT:
Shelby?!
(panting)
(fire crackling)
(gasps softly)
(panting)
Hey. You okay?
SHELBY:
No.
MATT: This was beyond having
a cross burned on your lawn.
(Matt grunting)
You okay?
There was something demonic
about it.
Matt called the police, and
we directed them to the spot.
This time,
the cops had to believe us.
SHELBY:
What if the fire had spread?
What if our house
had burned down?
Would you have
even bothered?
Hey, we're sending
units around
to track down Ishmael
Polk and his sons.
Once we find them, we'll
bring them in for questioning.
Questioning?
Is that the best
you can do?
Once they're out, they're just
gonna come back again.
Who knows
what they'll do next time?
There is nothing protecting us
from retaliation.
If you let these people come
after us again, we will have
no choice but to go public.
Oh, I'm putting a squad
car in your driveway.
You'll have 24-hour protection
until we know
what we're dealing with.
MATT:
Shelby was fierce.
I almost felt
sorry for the cop.
But the police protection
was long overdue.
We felt like we could finally
relax and get some sleep.
(phone ringing in distance)
(phone continues ringing)
Hello?
OLD WOMAN:
Please.
(static crackling)
Who is this?
They're hurting me.
Hello?
Why do you let them hurt me?
(static stops)
Hello?
OLD WOMAN:
No. No.
Mm. No.
I don't want it.
Please stop.
(whimpering)
(lights buzzing)
You'll take it and like it.
What the hell is this?!
What's the trouble?
Margaret refuses
to take her medicine.
Who are you people?!
Is that true, Margaret?
It makes me ill.
Was that back talk?
(whimpers)
It was.
(whimpering)
You've been warned.
(women laughing)
I thought I was dreaming.
I had to be dreaming.
(giggling)
(women laughing)
"M" is for Margaret!
(laughter)
(lights buzzing)
(gasps)
(Matt yelling)
LEE: It was after
3:00 in the morning
when the noise outside woke me.
MATT:
Hey! Hey! Hey, wake up!
(knocking)
Wake up! Wake up! Wake up!
There's someone in our house!
She shot her! She shot her!
She's dead.
What?
I couldn't understand how anyone
could have gotten
into the house.
Not with a cop sitting
right outside the door.
¶ ¶
(floorboards creaking)
Sir?
I don't understand.
They were just here.
You must have
been dreaming.
MATT:
Started to think
that maybe I had suffered
some sort of neurological damage
from the attack
back in Los Angeles.
I... secretly hoped that I had.
At least that would have
made sense.
LEE:
My brother and sister-in-law
were fast getting
the reputation of being kooks.
Kooks who liked to cry wolf.
I knew the next time the cops
might not be
so quick to respond.
So many weird things
were happening. It...
It's amazing how long a person
can rationalize the irrational.
(loud knocking)
(sighs)
Is she ready?
Yeah. Her things are.
Come.
(door creaks)
(sighs)
Seems to be playing a surprise
game of hide-and-seek.
Flora invented
her own special version
of hide-and-seek
when she was three.
Flora? It's time to go, baby.
LEE: She wouldn't tell us
that we were playing.
Where are you hiding?
LEE:
Part of the fun for her...
Sweetheart? Baby girl?
Got to go.
LEE: ...was seeing how long
it would take us to realize
she was hiding.
For a second,
it made me feel nostalgic.
Flora?
LEE: Both of us, I think.
(sighs)
(Flora whispering)
(Flora talking quietly)
Take her.
I got you!
(laughs)
Where'd she go?
Where did who go?
Priscilla.
The little girl
with the funny clothes.
I was offering her Mandy.
Oh, your doll?
Why would you do that?
As a trade.
So she wouldn't kill us.
They're going to kill us all.
And save me for last.
Mason! Mason, please!
Just let me kiss her good-bye!
Come on!
Put your seatbelt on.
LEE: It's okay.
No!
She's not coming back here.
How does an eight-year-old
even know
how to say that? "Kill me last"?
I don't know what's
going on in this house,
but she's never
coming back here!
(Flora crying)
It's okay.
Don't worry. It's o...
It's okay. It's okay.
Calm down.
Please! Please! Please!
I'm calling the judge.
FLORA: I don't want to leave.
Daddy, please.
Stop!
LEE: That's the day
I fell off the wagon.
(glass shatters)
Someone's downstairs.
(groans):
Oh.
(sighs)
(slurring):
I'm sorry, Shel...
Shelby.
I broke your bowl.
Oh, shit.
I didn't mean to.
Lee, have you even been
to sleep yet?
What the hell, Lee?!
Shit.
I didn't do that.
Okay.
Uh-uh.
All right, come on, come on.
MATT: Neither one of us
believed her, but people do
strange things when they are
under the influence.
Hell, I've done plenty myself.
But it opened my eyes,
seeing her like that.
MATT: I mean, Lee was always
the strong one.
She always took care of things.
I mean, my sister was the rock
of our family.
You got to get
your shit together, girl.
(groans)
Come on.
You don't think
I know that?
I'm trying,
but I'm weak.
(sighs)
You can't... you can't
let him find out.
Okay.
Now, now, come on.
Or I'll never see
my daughter again.
Calm down. Stop. Stop.
Don't think about it.
No.
We'll figure it out, okay?
(groans)
Just let me take of you
for once, all right?
Oh, shit. Oh, shit.
SHELBY (in distance): Matt?
Shh, shh.
SHELBY:
Could you come here, please?
(whispers):
Just rest. Rest, girl. Rest.
(groans)
(sighs)
Do you see her?
I see her.
Matt?
There's something there.
(creaking)
(groans)
(gasping)
LEE:
I was three sheets to the wind,
but I knew
Matt had left the room.
I felt...
I sensed something--
someone-- watching over me.
(quiet squishing)
(gasps)
(gasping)
(panting)
(sighs)
(squealing)
(screams)
(panting)
MATT: We didn't know
who that little girl was.
The way she was dressed,
we figured
she had to be a member
of that hillbilly Polk family.
We were worried that maybe
they put her out there
to lure us into a trap
or something.
But we both felt, whatever
was going on in that cellar,
we were going to find out.
Together.
SHELBY: It was like someone
had been living down there.
Who knows how long ago or...
for how long?
It made my skin crawl.
The girl didn't lead us there
as a trap.
Mm-mm. She wanted us
to find that camera.
What we didn't know was why.
What was on that tape
that she wanted us to see?
I am not what I am.
This...
is not what I envisioned
when I first came here.
But there are forces
that will not let me sleep.
They keep coming to me,
showing me horrible things,
escalating every night,
until it got physical.
Look, look.
Here's what they did to me.
(panting)
I'm too afraid
to go back into that house now.
I fear that whatever
malevolent force is there
intends to kill me.
So... I'm living here
in the cellar.
It's-it's cold. It's smelly.
And-and despite appearances,
I am not crazy!
I am an academic.
I am an author.
Is this the same guy you saw
in the video in the woods?
Yeah, that's him.
What he said on that tape
sounded insane.
But...
looking into his eyes
as he told the story...
we were immediately pulled in.
MAN:
Okay, from the beginning.
Today is October 11, 1997.
This recording will be
my last testament. Maybe.
Um, I want to tell the truth,
as much as I know of it.
Fact: my name is
Dr. Elias Cunningham.
I am a professor
at Bradley University.
Fact: I came here two months ago
to begin research
on my new book, a, uh...
a true crime novel
in the vein of Helter Skelter.
Uh, my initial subjects
were two nurses,
Miranda and Bridget Jane.
They were sisters who spent
every waking moment together.
They couldn't bear to be apart.
They worked in an assisted
living facility in Rochester
in 1988.
It was suspected but never
proven that they were behind
the mysterious deaths
of two elderly patients.
They quit their jobs before
any charges could be filed,
and they wound up here,
in, uh... in North Carolina,
where they opened a assisted
living facility of their own.
The house they purchased
had previously been unoccupied
for 15 years.
The family before-- a father,
a mother, two daughters--
had lived in the house
only for a brief time
before they suddenly vacated.
They left
all their possessions behind.
They left no forwarding address.
But this ominous history
didn't deter my subjects.
It may have even drawn them
to the house.
Fact: the living facility
they opened was cheap,
which ensured a bounty
of applicants, but they had
their own unique criterion
for accepting applicants.
They wanted families
who were tired of
taking care of their relatives,
families who just wanted
a place to store them
until they died.
But the most bizarre criteria
for accepting a patient
had to do with the letter
of their first name.
(grunting)
They chose people
and murdered them
because they were using
the letters of their names
to spell out
their favorite word.
"R" is for Roger.
(humming)
(coughing)
"E" is for Eunice. (chuckles)
(laughing)
BRIDGET:
"M"
is for Margaret!
(both laughing)
I found Miranda's diary.
What started
as a sick sisterly game
soon became an act of defiance--
against people, against society,
against life itself.
Miranda became convinced
that each soul they took
would add a lifetime
to their passion
and ensure
that their love would...
would eclipse eternity.
Fact: October 29, 1989,
police were called
to investigate the facility.
Apparently some relatives
became concerned
when no one answered
the telephone there
for three weeks.
Bridget and Miranda were gone.
They found not a single
personal item in the house.
They alerted the FBI,
even the Mexican police,
but the nurses had disappeared.
The only thing they left behind
was a word, unfinished,
on the wall.
"Murder."
The house was put up for sale.
They tried to make it
presentable.
They put in new carpeting,
repainted all the walls.
But each time
they covered the letters,
even if they looked away
for a minute,
the word would reappear again.
What, Matt?
(whispers):
"M" is for Margaret.
What?
"M." "M."
"M" is for "Margaret."
Matt.
What are you doing?
It's here.
She said it.
I saw it.
Matt, what are
you talking about?
(panting)
SHELBY:
It seemed...
totally crazy.
But everything he said
on that tape was true.
The letters on the wall
proved it.
And he wasn't finished.
There is an official story,
and that story is about
two homicidal nurses
who killed five elderly patients
and fled the country.
They got away with murder,
but I know the truth now
and I am convinced
that is not what happened.
They didn't leave,
they were stopped.
Something got to them
before they were able to take
their final victim
and finish spelling "murder."
Not by the police, by something
even more evil than they were.
Something here.
Everywhere.
In the air.
In the woods.
(voice quivering):
In that house.
I haven't set foot
in that house... in days.
But I'm going back in there.
I don't know if I will survive,
but I have to see
exactly what it is.
(panting)
I know you're in here.
Show yourself.
(gasps)
Okay. All right, okay.
(sobbing)
Show yourself!
(metal scraping on glass)
Oh, my... Turn it off.
Wait, wait, wait.
(panting)
(screams, whimpers)
(distant thump)
What was that?
We wanted out.
We wanted our money back.
We wanted our lives back.
The bank sold it to us,
and the bank was just gonna
have to take it back.
I just called their rep and said
we needed to discuss
our options.
No choice?
Well, of course
we have a choice.
We could sue you for fraud.
Some nurses ran
a facility here
and they killed their patients,
under this roof.
Why are we finding
all this out now?
Let me explain
this once more.
When you bid
on this house,
you committed to buy
the property as is.
Any due diligence
needed to be
complete by the time
you raised your hand.
It wouldn't have made
a difference though, would it?
We found out about the nurses,
Googled their story,
but it doesn't correspond
with our house.
Why? Because you changed
the street address.
What else are you
trying to hide?
You entered a contract
with this bank, ma'am.
I'm not a realtor.
I've met my
obligations here.
(briefcase clicks)
If you decide to sell,
we can offer your buyer
very competitive rates.
(sighs)
SHELBY:
We were railroaded.
There was no going backwards.
We were trapped.
We'll never get back
what we paid for this.
Those swamp people
would buy it tomorrow
if we gave 'em a holler.
(scoffs) No way.
Oh, I feel sick to my stomach.
I didn't think
it could get any worse.
Then it did.
Is that Lee?
LEE:
All right, here we are.
MATT:
When I saw Lee with Flora...
(car door opens)
(Lee sighs)
All right, come on, baby.
I was looking at my sister
committing a felony.
I just wanted to see her.
(sighs)
But then there she was.
(laughter)
Next thing I knew,
we were driving back
to the house.
I'll get you something to drink.
Okay.
Lee...
Oh...
There's nothing that
we need to talk about.
(Matt sighs)
Does Mason know?
Mason does not
control my life.
Hey, Flora, why don't
we do your homework
in the other room and you
can have a snack in a minute.
Okay.
Come on.
Hey.
(softly):
Okay.
Are you drunk?
I would never endanger my child
by driving with
a drop of alcohol in my system.
Then you must have
lost your mind.
He's going to the judge.
He's gonna make sure
I never see her again.
Not after this stunt.
Lee...
Lee, you're a
police officer.
And technically
this is kidnapping.
He's gonna go to the cops,
if he hasn't already.
This is bad, Lee.
This is really bad.
There could be an AMBER Alert
out on you right now.
She's my daughter!
I have a right to see her!
You have a custody agreement.
Which he is trying to break.
SHELBY:
Yes, yes, Mason, she's here.
She's safe.
No, Flora's doing
her homework right now.
Yes, I know
that you are angry.
You have every right
to be furious.
(whispers):
Lee...
No, no, no,
no, no, Mason.
Please don't involve them.
You don't want Flora
to have to see
her mother dealing
with the police.
It wasn't malicious.
She just wanted to
see her daughter.
Yes, of course, yes.
We'll be here.
Okay.
Bye.
It's gonna be okay.
He's really pissed,
but I think I talked him
off the ledge.
Well, thank you for that.
I'm so sorry.
Hey.
I understand.
Really I do.
LEE:
I know what I did was insane.
Did I really want to be on
the run with an eight-year-old?
To turn her life upside down,
even more than it was?
To hide her away
from her father forever?
Flora deserved better.
(girl giggling in distance)
Let me say good-bye to Flora.
Before he comes for her.
It's the right thing, Lee.
She's in the living room.
(door creaking)
LEE: We looked everywhere
in that house.
My baby was gone.
Where are you?!
Flora!
Flora?
(twigs snapping,
leaves rustling)
(Lee screams, Shelby gasps)
Did you hear that?
(Lee screaming)
(whimpering)
Oh, my...